# RobotLog2RQM

## Table of Contents

-   [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    -   [How to install](#how-to-install)
-   [Usage](#usage)
-   [Example](#example)
-   [Contribution](#contribution)
-   [Sourcecode Documentation](#documentation)
-   [Feedback](#feedback)
-   [About](#about)
    -   [Maintainers](#maintainers)
    -   [Contributors](#contributors)
    -   [License](#license)

## Getting Started

[RobotLog2RQM](https://github.com/test-fullautomation/robotframework-robotlog2rqm)
is the tool that helps to import Robot Framework results (**\*.xml**
format) to [IBM® Rational® Quality
Manager](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSYMRC_6.0.2/com.ibm.rational.test.qm.doc/topics/c_qm_overview.html) -
RQM.

[RobotLog2RQM](https://github.com/test-fullautomation/robotframework-robotlog2rqm)
tool is operating system independent and only works with Python 3.

### How to install

RobotLog2RQM is not available on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/) now.

But you can install this package directly from Github repository as
below:

    pip install git+https://github.com/test-fullautomation/robotframework-robotlog2rqm.git

Or you can clone sourcecode to your local directory then install this
package with below steps:

    git clone https://github.com/test-fullautomation/robotframework-robotlog2rqm.git
    cd robotframework-robotlog2rqm
    python setup.py install

After succesful installation, the executable file **RobotLog2RQM** will
be available (under *Scripts* folder of Python on Windows and
*\~/.local/bin/* folder on Linux).

In case above location is added to **PATH** environment variable then
you can run it directly as operation system\'s command.

## Usage

[RobotLog2RQM](https://github.com/test-fullautomation/robotframework-robotlog2rqm)
tool requires the robot `output.xml` result file(s) which will be
imported, RQM information(e.g. host url, project, \...) and user
credential(user name and password) to interact with RQM resources.

Try with below command to get tools\'s usage:

    RobotLog2RQM -h

The usage should be showed as below:

    usage: RobotLog2RQM (RobotXMLResult to RQM importer) [-h] [-v] [-recursive]
                                                             [-createmissing]
                                                             [-updatetestcase] [-dryrun]
                                                             resultxmlfile host project
                                                             user password testplan

    RobotLog2RQM imports XML result files (default: output.xml) generated by the Robot
    Framework into a IBM Rational Quality Manager.

    positional arguments:
    resultxmlfile    absolute or relative path to the xml result file or directory of
                     result files to be imported.
    host             RQM host url.
    project          project on RQM.
    user             user for RQM login.
    password         password for RQM login.
    testplan         testplan ID for this execution.

    optional arguments:
    -h, --help       show this help message and exit
    -v               Version of the RobotLog2RQM importer.
    -recursive       if set, then the path is searched recursively for log files to be
                     imported.
    -createmissing   if set, then all testcases without fcid are created when importing.
    -updatetestcase  if set, then testcase information on RQM will be updated bases on
                     robot testfile.
    -dryrun          if set, then just show what would be done.

The below command is simple usage witth all required arguments to import
robot results into RQM:

    RobotLog2RQM <outputfile> <host> <project> <user> <password> <testplan>

Besides the executable file, you can also run tool as a Python module

    python -m RobotLog2RQM <outputfile> <host> <project> <user> <password> <testplan>

## Example

In order the import the robot result(s) to RQM, we need the `output.xml`
result file.

So, firstly execute the robot testcase(s) to get the `output.xml` result
file.

Sample robot testcase which contains neccessary information for
importing into RQM:

    *** Settings ***
    Metadata   project      ROBFW             # Test Environment
    Metadata   version_sw   SW_VERSION_0.1    # Build Record
    Metadata   component    Import_Tools      # Component - is used for test case
    Metadata   machine      %{COMPUTERNAME}   # Hostname
    Metadata   team-area    Internet Team RQM  # team-area (case-sensitive)

    *** Test Cases ***
    Testcase 01
       [Documentation]   This test is traceable with provided tcid  
       [Tags]   TCID-1001   FID-112   FID-111    robotfile-https://github.com/test-fullautomation
       Log      This is Testcase 01

    Testcase 02
       [Documentation]  This new testcase will be created if -createmissing argument 
                   ...  is provided when importing
       [Tags]   FID-113  robotfile-https://github.com/test-fullautomation
       Log      This is Testcase 02

After getting `output.xml` result file, try with below sample command to
import that result into testplan ID `720` of `CMD` project which is
hosted at `https://rb-alm-20-p.de.bosch.com`

    RobotLog2RQM output.xml https://rb-alm-20-p.de.bosch.com CMD test_user test_pw 720

Then, open RQM with your favourite browser and you will see that the
test case execution records and their results are imported in the given
testplan ID.

## Contribution

We are always searching support and you are cordially invited to help to
improve
[RobotLog2RQM](https://github.com/test-fullautomation/robotframework-robotlog2rqm)
tool.

## Sourcecode Documentation

To understand more detail about the tool\'s features and how resources
are mapped between Robot results and RQM, please refer to [RobotLog2RQM
tool's
Documentation](https://github.com/test-fullautomation/robotframework-robotlog2rqm/blob/develop/RobotLog2RQM/RobotLog2RQM.pdf).

## Feedback

Please feel free to give any feedback to us via

Email to: [Robot Framework Support
Group](mailto:RobotFrameworkSupportGroup@bcn.bosch.com)

Issue tracking: [RobotLog2RQM
Issues](https://github.com/test-fullautomation/robotframework-robotlog2rqm/issues)

## About

### Maintainers

[Thomas Pollerspöck](mailto:Thomas.Pollerspoeck@de.bosch.com)

[Tran Duy Ngoan](mailto:Ngoan.TranDuy@vn.bosch.com)

### Contributors

[Nguyen Huynh Tri Cuong](mailto:Cuong.NguyenHuynhTri@vn.bosch.com)

[Mai Dinh Nam Son](mailto:Son.MaiDinhNam@vn.bosch.com)

[Tran Hoang Nguyen](mailto:Nguyen.TranHoang@vn.bosch.com)

[Holger Queckenstedt](mailto:Holger.Queckenstedt@de.bosch.com)

### License

Copyright 2020-2022 Robert Bosch GmbH

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the \"License\"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

> [![License: Apache
> v2](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/robotframework.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an \"AS IS\" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
